---
date: '2022-12-08'
title: '2023-01-12 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)
No dial in number yet, sorry!

## Attendees
- Robin Fergason
- Laz Kestay
- Ross Beyer
- Julie Stopar
- Jay Laura

## Agenda
- Governance document review
- Comments on standards
- Next meeting agenda
- 

## Notes
- Context:
  - The governance model is fairly generic. Modelled after Europa. For Lunar specific changes we should incorporate those. Code of conduct is modelled off the Europa SDI.
  - The strategy document is a seed for discussion based off the Europa model.
- Strategy document:
  - This is not as mature as the other documents.
  - Share that out as a word document.
- Open floor
  - List of data / providers that LEAG is worried about.
  - Don't these missions all have DMPs for these data.
  - Perception: many of these missions have budgets that are tight so getting the data into a PDS compliant format can be challenging.
    - Where can we help with this problem?
  - Reminder for NASA that data may need additional funding in order to get these data.


## Action Items
- Jay: Clean, add context, reorganize, executive summary, and solicit for feedback.
- Jay: Post the code of conduct for discussion.
- Jay will send a list of names to Robin and she will get the docs out to the folks for review.
- Jay: Ping Amy - can we get a list of data that is of concern?
- Jay: Ping Brad re: MAPSIT - more info. Are we a candidate interface for standards between LEAG / MAPSIT?

Next Agenda:
- MAPSIT / LEAG updates
- LPSC - what do we want to have? Input on poster. (Jay - start the poster.)
- Code of Conduct - ratified
- Strategy Documents
- Any discussion of standards

## Next Meeting
Feb 9th @ 2PM MST.
