---
date: '2022-12-08'
title: '2022-12-08 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)
No dial in number yet, sorry!

## Attendees
- Jay Laura
- 


## Agenda
- LPSC Abstract
- LEAG Meeting (Executive Group)
- Lunar SDI Standards:
  - Data interoperability and (???) should make heavy use of hyperlinks.
  - Data interoperability: Longitude domain. GISystems want -180 to 180. Compelling reasons to force 0-360?
  - Data interoperability -> Map Projections: 'centered on an image' - what does that mean? Poor language.
  - Cartographic Standards - Styled Layer Descriptor for vector symbols in GeoPackage format
  - Metadata Standards: metadata standards - support of FGDC or ISO, recommending the transition to ISO (reduces friction with accuracy descriptions). Also, should we address unique resource identifiers for data, people, organizations, controlled vocabularies, etc.?
- Open floor

## Notes
- 


## Action Items
- From last meeting:
  - All: Review governance documents. Async discussion as appropriate. Goal is to be able to discuss in person anything where consensus is hard to find in January.
  - All: Think about an LPSC abstract (due 2 days before our January meeting). Likely a great opportunity to publicize our work. Discuss async if possible to keep space for standards discussion. I (Jay) can write a lunar/europa SDI one or a separate lunar and Europa one. Anyone on here can first author this too!